<h1>Short Essay Questions</h1>
<h2>1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?</h2>
<p>Programming is fascinating to me. The fact that abstract white coding on a black screen results in images of a vast array of colors, websites ornamented in a variety of fonts, or video clips of dancing puppies is astounding to me. </p>
<p> Programming intrigued me back when I was an undergraduate student. To fulfill my electives for graduation, I took a quick introduction to computers class. The course covered the basics as how to use the Microsoft Office suite which then progressed to dabble on coding for building an HTML website. Even though my website was very basic with a handful of pictures and what amounted to a single-spaced page of text, I was proud of myself for constructing it. B the end the class, I wanted to become more versed in coding but unfortunately I had reached my course maximum for my scholarship. With no available funds or knowledge of apprenticeships that would teach me coding, I eventually bought books to read about coding to lightly keep my hand in the water. </p>
<p>After all these years and pursuing a career in teaching, I now just use my knowledge of coding to correct errors I notice on my homework website for my students. As I am taking an indefinite hiatus in teaching, I would like to re-immerse myself in coding and development.</p>

<h3> 2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?</h3>
<p>If accepted into Ada Developers Academy, I see in five years working as developer at a corporation or a non-profit to financially support myself. However even though I have left the field of teaching, I still see myself tutoring or volunteering at a local library to help students learn about coding. Looking at the lack of females and minorities in the technology community, I feel that it becomes even more important for those, who are more versed in software developing, help people who don’t have that exposure. Coding can become a source of income for people seeking to improve their skillset or a creative outlet for people to express themselves. After all, knowledge is meant to be shared.</p>

<h4> 3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? </h4>  
<p>My parents immigrated to New York City in their twenties with only elementary school and middle school educations. They worked from sun up to sun down in Chinatown sweatshops and Chinese restaurant kitchens so that my sisters and I would have a better life.</p> 
<p>As a first generation Chinese-American, my parents made sure we understood how important it was to get a good education and to understand the worth of a dollar. Throughout college, my parents gave me some financial assistance and I worked throughout my studies. Even though my economic and ethnic status impacted my chances of finishing college, I realized that I had to make do with what I had and persevere. I recognized then and now the importance of breaking barriers set to exclude others and diversify communities.</p> 
<p>I will continue to push to study coding to disassemble the existing status quo. After this course, I hope to continue to educate other on how to code and “contribute to changing the world with software” as stated in ADA’s mission.</p>

<h5> 4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?</h5>
<p>Mistakes are hurdles everyone must get over and learn from. A mistake I made early on in my teaching career was not overpreparing for the classes I taught.</p> 
<p>Having heard mixed opinions about lesson planning from my professors, fellow educators and colleagues, I decided to enter my classroom with a loose outline of what I wanted to accomplish the first day of school. 
I went into my classroom on and presented my introductions and activities. Throughout the lesson the students were engaged, discussing the topic of the day, and finishing up the classroom activity. As was riding the high accomplishment, I glanced at the clock and noticed I had twenty more minutes until the bell rang. The feeling of anxiety burned in my stomach as I pummeled my brain to try to think of activities related to the previous lesson. But to no avail, I was not able to procure anything. In the end, my students and I more played icebreaker games and discussed their interests.</p> 
<p>After that lesson, I realized that internal prayers to the gods of time to move faster and light planning were never going to work in the long run. That evening I went home to write an extensive lesson with dialogue as to what I would say in addition to a contingency plan related to the lesson plan just in case class ended early. After my presentation not only did I feel better about my lesson, but I sensed that I was able to maximize my students’ learning potential. From that point on I wrote extensive lesson plans to prepare myself for every lesson. Over time as I had more routines under my belt, my lesson plans became lighter than when I first began. However, it took a lot of hard work to get to that point.</p>
